Engine Model – This is probably something you haven’t seen in an ECU before and it’s important to how the Open5xxxECU works so it it’s worth explaining not only what it is but why it’s here and how it makes your life a lot easier.

The Engine model or “engine fuel needs model” is your primary fuel setup and tuning tool.  Basically the engine model is your expected torque curve and your fuel needs will basically follow it.  The basically part is that it should match pretty well up to about your torque peak then the model will probably want to stay up around 100% even though torque is dropping below 100% because the dropping torque means your engine is getting less efficient and that will probably mean that the fuel requirements are not dropping.

You are allowed to enter 24 rpm/torque % points and it’s a good idea to use all of them, you can’t have too many but you can have too few.  You’ll generally want the points closer together at low rpm to give you good control of cranking, idle, cruise mixture.

Once you’ve picked the rpm point the % torque is the % of your expected peak torque.  So, if you expect you make 300 ft-lb torque peak at 4000 rpm, enter 100% next to 4000 rpm cell and all the cells above 4000.  Then if you expect 200 ft-lb at 2000 rpm you would enter 66% next to the 2000 rpm cell.

To help you with estimating the torque you engine put out there are several nice engine simulation programs on the market.  They range from something like DeskTop Dyno at about $50  that will give you a decent torque curve estimate to something like the professional grade Dynomation5 for $500 that will give you pretty much everything you need to “pre-tune” the engine so you can be within a few % of perfectly tuned the first time you turn the key.  Another option is to just look for a dyno graph from a similar engine (remember you are working in % torque so you just need a shape, not actual numbers).  Or if you just don’t know what to expect just fill in the entire curve with 100%s, but the closer your estimate, the faster your tuning will go so it’s worth putting in a little effort at this step.